Release candidates
==================

Install the repository tool by running `cargo xtask install-tool` from rust/.
Run it from the repository root with Git, Cargo and an authenticated GitHub CLI
available. The GitHub account needs permission to push candidate branches,
dispatch Actions workflows and read their artifacts. Existing publication
workflows retain their registry credentials and release environment controls.
The release-candidate workflow must be present on the repository's default
branch before GitHub will accept a dispatch.

Prepare (the dry run):

    revault-tool release prepare all

Scopes are cli, bindings and all. Optional --cli-version and --bindings-version
select explicit stable versions. Defaults increment the highest source/tag
version by one patch. The publishable Rust dependency chain receives patch
increments and local path requirements are updated; historical registry-only
migration dependencies retain their pinned versions.

Preparation requires a clean checkout. It updates release metadata and lockfiles,
creates release-notes/candidate.txt from commits since the last release tag,
commits these reviewable changes, and pushes a uniquely named candidate branch.
It does not create release tags or publish packages. CI runs the full Rust suite,
binding lint, applicable platform builds/tests and installed binding checks.
Preparation waits for CI and prints the candidate run ID, source commit,
versions, CI link and a copyable publish command. The ID is also saved in this
worktree's Git metadata, outside the source tree.

Publish the remembered candidate:

    revault-tool release publish

Or select the exact candidate explicitly, including from another machine:

    revault-tool release publish --candidate 12345678

Publication verifies the successful prepare run, commit, versions and every
retained artifact ID/SHA-256 digest. A changed checkout requires preparing again
or explicitly selecting the old candidate. Expired/deleted/changed artifacts
require preparing again. A moved candidate branch is refused. No source tests
or platform build matrix run during promotion. Registry-specific packaging and
upload commands still run against the retained publication trees.

For scope all, the existing CLI publication workflow must complete successfully
before the existing binding publication workflow is dispatched. This preserves
the trusted-publisher identities configured with registries. Tags are created
by CI at the validated commit; conflicting tags are refused. The coordinator
waits for each publication workflow, and the command waits for the coordinator.

Rerun the same publish command after a failure or interruption. It locates the
existing publication run and resumes failed jobs, or waits for a run still in
progress. Completed publication is reported without republishing. Existing CLI
release assets are compared byte-for-byte on retries instead of overwritten.
Registry destinations retain their existing publication-driver retry behavior.

Recover status:

    revault-tool release status
    revault-tool release status --candidate 12345678

Without remembered state, status lists recent CI prepare runs for explicit
selection. A failed prepare never becomes an implicit fallback to an older
successful candidate. Candidate branches and artifacts should be retained until
publication is complete. A new prepare is required after CI artifact retention
expires.

Development commands:

    revault-tool bindings generate
    revault-tool bindings status
    revault-tool test bindings
    revault-tool test cli

Generation compares temporary output first and writes only changed files.
Binding tests require flatc 25.2.10 and the package conformance dependencies.
Status reports generated-file currency, API coverage and registry versions.
Registry presence does not prove that the candidate's artifacts were published.

    revault-tool release status --watch
    revault-tool release logs

These commands reattach to an existing run or read its failed logs; they do not
prepare or publish another release. Prepare and publish watch automatically.
CI packaging and upload building blocks live under `internal`, hidden from
normal help. Old top-level publish commands have been removed.

Version selection:

    revault-tool release prepare cli --version 1.2.3
    revault-tool release prepare bindings --version minor
    revault-tool release prepare all --cli-version patch --bindings-version 0.4.0

With no explicit version, interactive preparation asks for patch, minor, major,
or an exact stable version. Noninteractive preparation requires explicit values.
Versions must exceed the current source/tag versions.

Live monitoring and cancellation:

    revault-tool release logs
    revault-tool release cancel
    revault-tool release cancel --candidate 12345678

Logs are fetched per completed failed/cancelled job, even while other jobs run.
Unfinished job logs are available in GitHub's web UI. Empty/unavailable log
responses are reported explicitly. Ctrl-C stops local monitoring without
cancelling CI and prints the exact cancel and reconnect commands.
Completed jobs use one line with their full name and total runtime. Active
jobs show their current step; failed jobs show the failing steps.
